#First Coffee With Coding Curious#

Date: February 10, 2010
Location: Quahwa
Attendees: 10

Our first meetup was a casual introduction and chat, where we heard different paths people have taken in their learning journey. 

##So, who attended?##

Overall a very interesting and colorful group of individuals. We had not one, but *two* forrestry engineers, several economists, and a combination of transportation engineers, journalists, fitness trainers, entrepreneurs, and even - believe it or not - software engineers. Some are just starting, some are already working as programmers, and some already have decades of experience. But all with one thing in common - always learning and wanting to learn more. 

##How are people learning?##

1. Online resources

Free and easy introductions for complete beginners were mentioned: 
FreeCodeCamp (HTML, CSS, JavaScript)
CodeAcademy (Python)
Youtube tutorials (no concrete courses were mentioned, but if you have some you really enjoyed, please do share)

Not free, but often very cheap:
Udemy (courses often availabe on discount for $10)
There is a lot of stuff on Udemy, and sometimes hard to pick the right course. If in doubt, the attendees warmly recommended courses by Colt Steele. 

Degrees and bootcamps:

Some of us want the flexibility of learning online, but need more structure and some deadlines to get us focused - and are ready to pay for it. Examples of what people at the meetup are doing:

A structured bootcamp with a syllabus and deadlines

A more slow, but broader approach to general computer science education is available in form of online university degrees, like the Bachelor of Science in Computer Science by University of London in collaboration with Coursera.

2. In-person educations

Some bootcamps and short courses are also available in Zagreb. We had attendees who tried: 
Algebra....
Code Ninja...

Or bootcamps abroad? 
Le Wagon has bootcamps in many European cities, if you are not tied to Zagreb. 

Company-sponsored training
Nobody at our meetup tried this, but it was mentioned as an option 
Novska

3. Learning on the job

There's no learning like learning on the job. Often we do not get to pick our first job, but discussed differences between experiences in startups and larger companies. 

In a startup you are more likely to have to figure things out on your own, and be directly thrown into the deep end of the pool. With the help of good team leads and colleagues, and most importantly, the internet - it may be a bit chaotic, but a very steep learning curve. No pain, no gain :) Being less formal than larger companies, startups are where you may find your first job opportunity - take it and run with it!

In larger companies, things are more structured, you may get the opportunity to work with a mentor and learn from them. And then after you've worked on your first project, move to a different one, with a different technology. Use your mentor wisely, it is an invaluable resource. 

4. Learning by doing (your own projects)

The advice we have heard over and over again from the experienced programmers in the group - find something you want to build, and build it. While tutorials are a good way to start, you are not a programmer until you have programmed something of your own, without following step-by-step guides. It may seem daunting, but this is the way to build your portfolio that you will show to your future employers. 

##What's next?##

This repository will serve as a collection of notes, ideas, plans, for the group. 
The idea behind this group is for everyone who has an idea on how to make it useful - to implement the idea! Not every meetup will be interesting to everyone, but if you are interested in something, one thing is certain - there's at least a few other people who will be interested in that same thing. So reach out and find them here. 

You have a book about programming you want to read, but would like to have people to discuss it with? Suggest a bookclub meeting.

You have a topic you know about and want to speak about it? Be a speaker at one of our meetups.

You are working on an app and would like some help or feedback? We could organize show-and-tell sessions or hackathons. 

You are taking an online course and want to find study buddies? Check if anyone here would like to have study sessions with you. 

There's a conference with online live stream you think would be interesting? Let's organize a viewing. 

You know an organizations who'd like to sponsor a meetup session to promote their school/company? Send them our way. 

##Did I miss anything?##

These notes, same as this whole repository is meant to be a collaborative effort. If you have anything to add or correct, join our repository and create issues / pull requests. 

If you have any advice for me, please feel free to openly let me know. I have not been running group repositories before, and I am sure I am doing many things all wrong - I'm very open to constructive feedback. 

Code, learn, have fun, and see you at our next meetup!
